Hi, we're in the Smithsonian American Art Museum's
19th century galleries. My name is Scott.
I'm the lighting designer of this museum.
My job is literally to make these
artworks look as good as they can.
Is light visible? It seems obvious ---
Yes, light is visible, but I can create
the conditions as a lighting designer
so light appears invisible.
For example, right in front of me, there's a giant
bright beam of light, and you wouldn't know it
until I put my hands in front of it
or my face in front of it,
and then it becomes apparent.
And that's so much of what my job is,
is to literally put
the light where I want it
and take it away where we don't.
And that's what I'm expert in.
Well, I'm going to press this button,
and I'm going to transition
this hallway from kind of bright lighting to
show you the magic that I do when I
take each individual spotlight,
and I aim it very carefully at the artworks,
and it looks like this.
So let's see: one, two, three...
Do you see that, that the artworks start
coming up brighter and brighter?
And literally, the painting starts coming forwards.
You might be able to actually see
the rainbow come out in the Niagara Falls,
and it's really much more dramatic.
This is the Alma Thomas Gallery,
and one of my favorite paintings we have.
This is Alma Thomas's "Snoopy."
She actually named it after the cartoon,
but even more,
the Lunar 10 Module was nicknamed "Snoopy,"
the module that would actually snoop around
the Moon looking for the perfect place to land
And she has another title,
"Earth Sun Display on Earth"
because this was the first time,
in 1968, that there was a photograph
of how the Sun illuminates the Earth
from the Moon's point of view.
This is her representation of that first
Earthrise image, where we see
the glorious blue marble that we have
with verdant greens and a whole rainbow of color.
And once you hear Alma Thomas's story
about how she was inspired
by the space missions, it really brings it to life.
What is it about the light that allows
us to see this full range of color?
On this artwork, there is about three or four lights.
They're all basically the same kind of light.
It's what I call a "blue pump phosphor LED".
If you go to a hardware store or your grocery store
almost every single light bulb in there ---
that isn't colored, that's putting out
what you think of as white light ---
is a blue pump phosphor LED.
Blue pump phosphor.
What does that mean?
That means that the LEDs inside
are actually blue.
And then we take this yellow phosphor,
we lay it on top of the blue,
and it explodes in white light.
And it's exactly the same kind
that we are using here.
So we smashed a few light bulbs.
Let me show you this one.
So when we smashed this light bulb, it ---
it ended looking up like this.
And you see these LEDs?
It actually starts with a blue LED.
The LED itself is blue.
It's kind of unbelievable.
And then this phosphor coating
will make it explode in white light.
Don't take take my word for it,
let me show you, but first I need
to put on these goggles,
because I'm going to turn on some blue light,
which would be irritating to my eye.
So I'm going to turn this LED on.
Ah, look at that.
So now the LED is on.
This is Alma Thomas's painting Snoopy,
lit with just the blue part of the blue pump phosphor.
The blue light is actually the blue LEDs
in all of these light bulbs.
I then take this phosphor piece of plastic
and I hold it closer and closer,
and you can see the phosphor creating white
light, and when it's completely exposed,
I'm now lighting the painting,
well, with this light bulb.
It's much more effective with the exhibit lights above,
but this gives you a sense of how
this works.
So it's the difference between blue light
and down-converting that blue energy to a fuller,
brighter, whiter light that lets you see all the colors.
And if we light it with fuller, brighter, whiter light,
you'll get the full range of colors.
And it took a while for LEDs to be able to
create the full spectrum of ---
the full spectrum,
so our eyes could see all the colors that
Alma Thomas is offering us in this painting.
Welcome to my shop.
This is my laboratory.
I'm going to actually put on my safety goggles.
Okay.
Now, what I've got here is a spectrometer.
And I'm gonna measure the spectra
of the blue part of this LED.
And there we go.
And if you take a look at the readout,
you'll see the blue spectral signature
peaking at 450 nanometers.
So same bulb, with the yellow shield put back in place.
So we're going to measure it once the phosphor is in place.
and there it is.
And now, so that blue peak that was so high,
if you actually look at the numbers,
the numbers should be,
well, it's going to be lower
because that blue has been
made dimmer because we're down-converting
a lot of that blue energy
into white light and literally
blue and yellow make white.